
Git Tutorial 

Eduardo Zola
eduzol@gmail.com
Software engineer

It is important to know how to use a distributed version control management system.

In git's case, there are two repositories. A local repository and a Remote Repository.
This allows user to keep modifying their documents even when they are offline.Later on, they can push their changes
into the remote repository.This architecture makes possible to use git in several ways.For example, it is possible to use
a centralizaed approach in which users work in their local repository and, after testing, push their changes to a common remote
repository. Another approach is to use a public repository for every user and before changing documents pull all the 
changes of the users into the local repository.

Finally there is a hybrid approach in which there is a centralized repository that is populated from the users
public repositories.


Now Git also work differently from the centralized VCS. For one thing: Git splits the notion of commit in two different
processes: first adding a document's change to the Git index, so Git now is aware of the change, and two: commiting that change into 
the repository.

Git Commands:


I.  GIT BASICS

	add command:
	git add path/to/file		adds file to index
	git add path/dir			adds all contents of the directory to repository
	git add .					adds current directory
	git add -A|-all				adds al files in the current repository
	git add -u|--update			adds all files previusly modified. New files not included
	git add -p					shows each individual change before adding
	
	commit command:
	git commit file -m "commit message" 	commits contents of index into repository
	git commit -a -m "commit message"		adds and commits everything into repository
	
	error handling
	git checkout -- file		reverts file to the HEAD version. WARNING modifies working tree file
	
	remove file from index:
	git reset file HEAD 		deletes changes from index
	
	move file to other directory
	git mv file new/path		moves file
	
	delete a file
	git rm -- filename			deletes file. Stages changes only (undo with git reset filename HEAD, git checkout --filename)

	
II. WORKING WITH A TEAM
	Its possible to use Git in two different ways, according to the way repositrories are used: Distributed or centralized. In a 
	distributed configuration, each user has a private repository, and a Public repository, where each user pushes their changes to. 
	Then, each user puls changes for every other user´s repository.
	In contrast, using a centralized repository all users push their changes into a centra repository and one user is in charge of 
	managing those pushed changes.
	
	adding and removing remotes:
	git remote add remotename(origin) URL	adds a remote repository to the local repository
	
	retrieving remote changes (pull)
	git pull [name branchname]	 git pull combines merging and fetching in one command. origin by default
	
	We can simplify this operation by using:
	
	git clone [repository url] 		This command retrieves a remote repository and initializes a project in the local repository


TO SUM UP!

	1. Configure GIT
		generate key
			ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "your_email@youremail.com"

		add key to github		
			add key to github (id_rsa.pub)
		
		test git connection	
			ssh -T git@github.com

		Setup info
			git config --global user.name "Firstname Lastname"
			git config --global user.email "your_email@youremail.com"
		
	2. clone a repository

		git clone git@github.com:eduzol/GitDocs.git

		
	3. push changes

		git push origin master

	4. pull changes ass needed
		
		git pull origin master

		OR
		
		git fetch origin
		git merge origin/master	
		
